1. make a directory called first
mkdir first

2. change directory to the first folder
cd first

3. create a file called person.txt
touch person.txt

4. change the name of person.txt to another.txt
mv person.txt another.txt

5. make a copy of the another.txt file and call it copy.txt
cp another.txt copy.txt

6. remove the copy.txt file
rm copy.txt

7. make a copy of the first folder and call it second
cp -r first second

8. delete the second folder
rm -rf second


1. What does the man command do? Type in man rm. How do you scroll and get out?
man command gives you a manual on how to use and apply a command. We scroll using Ctrl-D or jkl; keys if your (configured for vim) and can get out using q

2. Look at the man page for ls. What does the -l flag do? What does the -a flag do?
The -l flag for the command ls gives you a long list of the current directory rather than just a single line detailing the directory. This is good for formatting and readabilty purposes. -a flag includes hidden files in directory

3. How do you jump between words in the terminal?
Keystroke: Alt-f

4. How do you get to the end of a line in terminal?
Keystroke: Ctrl-e

5. How do you move your cursor to the beginning in terminal?
Keystroke: Ctrl-a

6. How do you delete a word (without pressing backspace multiple times) in terminal?
Keystroke: Ctrl-d

7. What is the difference between a terminal and shell?
Terminal is a like a ide for the shell, you can execute shell commands in a terminal. The terminal hosts the shell and is one way of accessing the shell.

8. What is an absolute path?
The path from the root directory of your system

9. What is an relative path?
The path of a file or folder from current directory.

10. What is a flag? Give three examples of flags you have used.
A flag is an option for different ways of executing a shell command, ls -a, rm -f, tar -xvf

11. What do the r and f flags do with the rm command?
the -r and -f flags in the rm command deal with recursive and forced deletion of a directory/file. Best use case being directory
